l_inf/README.md, before:

In this set of experiments, our threat model consists of a l_infinity bound adversary with `epsilon = 8`. Please run all the commands below from the project root directory.

## Training
The following are the commands to train the models from Table 1 in the main paper:

**1. SAT**

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
	--arch resnet50 \						# model architecutre
    --out-dir checkpoints \ 				# directory where all checkpoints will be stored
    --exp-name cifar_resnet50_linf_8_0 \ 	# name of checkpoint save dir for this experiment
    --adv-train 1 \ 						# perform adversarial training
    --adv-eval 1 \ 							# perform adversarial evaluation at the end of every epoch
    --constraint inf \ 						# l_2 adversay
	--eps 0.03137254901960784 \ 			# adversary budget (8/255)
    --attack-lr 0.00784313725490196 \ 		# attack step size (2/255)
    --random-start 1 						# start attack at a point randomly sampled from the neighborhood of the given input
```


**2. fast AT**

```
# ResNet50 fast AT train
python -m l_inf.train_pgd --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --opt-level O2
```

**3. free AT**

```
# ResNet50 free AT train
python -m l_inf.train_free --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50  --opt-level O2
```

**4. RRM (VGG11)**

- Step 1: Train the VGG11 teacher using fast AT:

```
# VGG11 fast AT train
python -m l_inf.train_pgd --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch vgg11 --opt-level O2
```

- Step 2: Train the ResNet50 student using RRM and the previously trained VGG11 model:

```
# RRM (VGG11) train
python -m l_inf.train_rrm --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --t-arch vgg11 --t-loadpath /path/to/vgg11/teacher/checkpoint.pt --feat-loss cosine --xent-weight 0.005 --feat-weight -1
```

**4. RRM (ResNet18)**

- Step 1: Train the ResNet18 teacher using fast AT:

```
# ResNet18 fast AT train
python -m l_inf.train_pgd --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet18 --opt-level O2
```

- Step 2: Train the ResNet50 student using RRM and the previously trained ResNet18 model:

```
# RRM (ResNet18) train
python -m l_inf.train_rrm --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --t-arch resnet18 --t-loadpath /path/to/resnet18/teacher/checkpoint.pt --feat-loss cosine --xent-weight 0.005 --feat-weight -1
```

## Evaluation

We provide two evaluation scripts in this repo:

* `test.py`: uses a manual implementation of the PGD attack.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_inf.test --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --dataroot /path/to/cifar --random-restarts 10 --pgd-iters 50
```

* `ibm_test.py`: uses [IBM's ART](https://github.com/Trusted-AI/adversarial-robustness-toolbox) to execute sate-of-the-art attacks like AutoPGD.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_inf.ibm_test --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --dataroot /path/to/cifar --attack pgd --random-restarts 10 --pgd-iters 50

# AutoPGD Attack (reported in main paper)
python -m l_inf.ibm_test --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --dataroot /path/to/cifar --attack auto_pgd --random-restarts 10 --pgd-iters 50

```

Both these scripts return accuracy on the clean test set by default. Run the AutoPGD attack by appropriately setting the args `arch`, `load-path`, `data-path`, to get the numbers reported in Table 1.

Commit message:

training time statistics generation using training log added

l_inf/README.md, after:

In this set of experiments, our threat model consists of a l_infinity bound adversary with `epsilon = 8`. Please run all the commands below from the project root directory.

## Training
The following are the commands to train the models from Table 1 in the main paper:

**1. SAT**

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
	--arch resnet50 \						# model architecutre
    --out-dir checkpoints \ 				# directory where all checkpoints will be stored
    --exp-name cifar_resnet50_linf_8_0 \ 	# name of checkpoint save dir for this experiment
    --adv-train 1 \ 						# perform adversarial training
    --adv-eval 1 \ 							# perform adversarial evaluation at the end of every epoch
    --constraint inf \ 						# l_2 adversay
	--eps 0.03137254901960784 \ 			# adversary budget (8/255)
    --attack-lr 0.00784313725490196 \ 		# attack step size (2/255)
    --random-start 1 						# start attack at a point randomly sampled from the neighborhood of the given input
```


**2. fast AT**

```
# ResNet50 fast AT train
python -m l_inf.train_pgd --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --opt-level O2
```

**3. free AT**

```
# ResNet50 free AT train
python -m l_inf.train_free --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50  --opt-level O2
```

**4. RRM (VGG11)**

- Step 1: Train the VGG11 teacher using fast AT:

```
# VGG11 fast AT train
python -m l_inf.train_pgd --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch vgg11 --opt-level O2
```

- Step 2: Train the ResNet50 student using RRM and the previously trained VGG11 model:

```
# RRM (VGG11) train
python -m l_inf.train_rrm --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --t-arch vgg11 --t-loadpath /path/to/vgg11/teacher/checkpoint.pt --feat-loss cosine --xent-weight 0.005 --feat-weight -1
```

**4. RRM (ResNet18)**

- Step 1: Train the ResNet18 teacher using fast AT:

```
# ResNet18 fast AT train
python -m l_inf.train_pgd --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet18 --opt-level O2
```

- Step 2: Train the ResNet50 student using RRM and the previously trained ResNet18 model:

```
# RRM (ResNet18) train
python -m l_inf.train_rrm --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --t-arch resnet18 --t-loadpath /path/to/resnet18/teacher/checkpoint.pt --feat-loss cosine --xent-weight 0.005 --feat-weight -1
```

## Evaluation

We provide two evaluation scripts in this repo:

* `test.py`: uses a manual implementation of the PGD attack.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_inf.test --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --dataroot /path/to/cifar --random-restarts 10 --pgd-iters 50
```

* `ibm_test.py`: uses [IBM's ART](https://github.com/Trusted-AI/adversarial-robustness-toolbox) to execute sate-of-the-art attacks like AutoPGD.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_inf.ibm_test --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --dataroot /path/to/cifar --attack pgd --random-restarts 10 --pgd-iters 50

# AutoPGD Attack (reported in main paper)
python -m l_inf.ibm_test --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --dataroot /path/to/cifar --attack auto_pgd --random-restarts 10 --pgd-iters 50

```

Run the AutoPGD attack by appropriately setting the args `arch`, `load-path`, `data-path`, to get the numbers reported in Table 1.

Both these scripts return accuracy on the clean test set by default. Training time statistics will also be generated if the training log text file is available.
