l_2/README.md, before:

In this set of experiments, our threat model consists of a l_2 bound adversary with `epsilon = 1.0` for CIFAR-10 and `epsilon = 3.0` for Restricted-ImageNet.

## Replicating Results from Table 2
### Training

The following are the commands to train the models from Table 2 in the main paper:

1. **SAT**

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch resnet50 \				# model architecutre
    --out-dir checkpoints \ 			# directory where all checkpoints will be stored
    --exp-name cifar_resnet50_l2_1_0 \ 		# name of checkpoint save dir for this experiment
    --adv-train 1 \ 				# perform adversarial training
    --adv-eval 1 \ 				# perform adversarial evaluation at the end of every epoch
    --constraint 2 \ 				# l_2 adversary
    --eps 1.0 \ 				# adversary budget
    --attack-lr 0.2 \ 				# attack step size
    --random-start 1 				# start attack at a point randomly sampled from the neighborhood of the given input
```

2. **RDT**

* Step 1: Training a robust teacher (VGG11/ResNet18)

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --out-dir checkpoints \
    --exp-name cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --adv-train 1 \
    --adv-eval 1 \
    --constraint 2 \
    --eps 1.0 \
    --attack-lr 0.2 \
    --random-start 1
```

* Step 2:  Generating robust training data using teacher trained in previous step using the command below. Pre-generated robust data can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Sip2YRLQJTIM5X8VuQOr69LWLtK8r_E1?usp=sharing).

```bash
python -m l_2.generate_dr_cifar \
    --dataset cifar \ 			# this script only supports cifar
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --ckpt-dir ./checkpoints \		# directory where all checkpoints will be stored
    --model-dir cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \	# directory within <ckpt-dir> with teacher's checkpoint
    --batch-size 500 \
    --step-size 0.1 \
    --iterations 1000

# By default, the robust data is stored at: ./robust_data_cifar/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0
```


* Step 3: Training a student model on the robust training data generated in previous step:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_rrm \
    --dataset cifar \
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --rob-dataroot ./robust_data_cifar/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --student-arch resnet50 \
    --xent-weight 1.0 \
    --feat-weight 0.0 \
    --exp-name dr=vgg11_l2_1_0
```

3. **KD (VGG11/ResNet18)**

* Step 1: Training a robust teacher (VGG11/ResNet18):

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --out-dir checkpoints \
    --exp-name cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --adv-train 1 \
    --adv-eval 1 \
    --constraint 2 \
    --eps 1.0 \
    --attack-lr 0.2 \
    --random-start 1 \
    --temperature 30.0
```

* Step 2: Transferring robustness from the teacher trained in previous step to a ResNet50 student:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_kdloss \
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --teacher-load-path ./checkpoints/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0/checkpoint.pt \
    --teacher-arch vgg11 \
    --student-arch resnet50 \
    --alpha 1.0 \
    --temperature 30.0 
```



4. **RRM (VGG11/ResNet18)**

* Step 1: Training a robust teacher (VGG11/ResNet18):

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --out-dir checkpoints \
    --exp-name cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --adv-train 1 \
    --adv-eval 1 \
    --constraint 2 \
    --eps 1.0 \
    --attack-lr 0.2 \
    --random-start 1
```

* Step 2: Transferring robustness from the teacher trained in previous step to a ResNet50 student:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_rrm \
    --dataset cifar \
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --load-std-data \
    --teacher-load-path ./checkpoints/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0/checkpoint.pt \
    --teacher-arch vgg11 \
    --student-arch resnet50 \
    --xent-weight 0.001 \
    --feat-loss cosine
    --feat-weight -1.0 
```


### Evaluation

We provide two evaluation scripts in this repo:

* `test.py`: uses a manual implementation of the PGD attack.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_2.test --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --temperature 1.0 --eps 1.0 --step-size 0.125 --pgd-iters 50 --random-restarts 10

```

* `ibm_test.py`: uses [IBM's ART](https://github.com/Trusted-AI/adversarial-robustness-toolbox) to execute sate-of-the-art attacks like AutoPGD.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_2.ibm_test --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --temperature 1.0 --attack pgd --eps 1.0 --step-size 0.125 --pgd-iters 50 --random-restarts 10

# AutoPGD Attack (reported in main paper)
python -m l_2.ibm_test --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --temperature 1.0 --attack autopgd --eps 1.0 --pgd-iters 50 --random-restarts 10

```

Both these scripts return accuracy on the clean test set by default. Run the AutoPGD attack by appropriately setting args `arch`, `load-path`, `dataroot`, to get the numbers reported in Table 2.


## Replicating Results from Table 3
### Data
Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/facebookarchive/fb.resnet.torch/blob/master/INSTALL.md#download-the-imagenet-dataset) under the section 'Download the ImageNet dataset' to download and pre-process the ImageNet dataset.


### Training

The following are the commands to train the models from Table 3 in the main paper:

1. **SAT (ResNet50/VGG16)**

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
	--dataset restricted_imagenet \
	--data /path/to/orignal/imagenet/root \
	--arch resnet50 \				# or, vgg16
	--out-dir checkpoints \
	--exp-name rimagenet_resnet50_l2_3_0 \
	--adv-train 1 \
	--adv-eval 1 \
	--lr 0.01 \
	--step-lr 125 \
	--batch-size 128 \
	--constraint 2 \
	--eps 3.0 \
	--attack-lr 0.6 \
	--random-start 1
```

2. **RRM (AlexNet)**

This is a 2-step process:

* Step 1: Training a robust AlexNet teacher:

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
	--dataset restricted_imagenet \
	--data /path/to/orignal/imagenet/root \
	--arch alexnet \
	--out-dir checkpoints \
	--exp-name rimagenet_alexnet_l2_3_0 \
	--adv-train 1 \
	--adv-eval 1 \
	--lr 0.01 \
	--step-lr 125 \
	--batch-size 128 \
	--constraint 2 \
	--eps 3.0 \
	--attack-lr 0.6 \
	--random-start 1
```

* Step 2: Transferring robustness from the teacher trained in previous step to a ResNet50/VGG16 student:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_rrm \
    --dataset restricted_imagenet \
    --dataroot /path/to/imagenet/root \
    --load-std-data \
    --teacher-load-path /path/to/teacher/checkpoint.pt \
    --teacher-arch alexnet \
    --student-arch resnet50 \					#or, vgg16
    --xent-weight 0.001 \
    --feat-loss l2 \
    --feat-weight 1.0  \
    --epochs 60 \
    --lr-schedule multistep \
    --milestones 35,50
```

### Evaluation

To replicate numbers reported in Table 2, appropriately set the args `arch`, `load-path`, `dataroot` in the command below:

```
# AutoPGD Attack
python -m l_2.ibm_test --dataroot /path/to/imagenet/root --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --attack autopgd --eps 3.0 --pgd-iters 20 --random-restarts 5
```

Commit message:

training time statistics generation using training log added

l_2/README.md, after:

In this set of experiments, our threat model consists of a l_2 bound adversary with `epsilon = 1.0` for CIFAR-10 and `epsilon = 3.0` for Restricted-ImageNet.

## Replicating Results from Table 2
### Training

The following are the commands to train the models from Table 2 in the main paper:

1. **SAT**

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch resnet50 \				# model architecutre
    --out-dir checkpoints \ 			# directory where all checkpoints will be stored
    --exp-name cifar_resnet50_l2_1_0 \ 		# name of checkpoint save dir for this experiment
    --adv-train 1 \ 				# perform adversarial training
    --adv-eval 1 \ 				# perform adversarial evaluation at the end of every epoch
    --constraint 2 \ 				# l_2 adversary
    --eps 1.0 \ 				# adversary budget
    --attack-lr 0.2 \ 				# attack step size
    --random-start 1 				# start attack at a point randomly sampled from the neighborhood of the given input
```

2. **RDT**

* Step 1: Training a robust teacher (VGG11/ResNet18)

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --out-dir checkpoints \
    --exp-name cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --adv-train 1 \
    --adv-eval 1 \
    --constraint 2 \
    --eps 1.0 \
    --attack-lr 0.2 \
    --random-start 1
```

* Step 2:  Generating robust training data using teacher trained in previous step using the command below. Pre-generated robust data can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Sip2YRLQJTIM5X8VuQOr69LWLtK8r_E1?usp=sharing).

```bash
python -m l_2.generate_dr_cifar \
    --dataset cifar \ 			# this script only supports cifar
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --ckpt-dir ./checkpoints \		# directory where all checkpoints will be stored
    --model-dir cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \	# directory within <ckpt-dir> with teacher's checkpoint
    --batch-size 500 \
    --step-size 0.1 \
    --iterations 1000

# By default, the robust data is stored at: ./robust_data_cifar/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0
```


* Step 3: Training a student model on the robust training data generated in previous step:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_rrm \
    --dataset cifar \
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --rob-dataroot ./robust_data_cifar/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --student-arch resnet50 \
    --xent-weight 1.0 \
    --feat-weight 0.0 \
    --exp-name dr=vgg11_l2_1_0
```

3. **KD (VGG11/ResNet18)**

* Step 1: Training a robust teacher (VGG11/ResNet18):

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --out-dir checkpoints \
    --exp-name cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --adv-train 1 \
    --adv-eval 1 \
    --constraint 2 \
    --eps 1.0 \
    --attack-lr 0.2 \
    --random-start 1 \
    --temperature 30.0
```

* Step 2: Transferring robustness from the teacher trained in previous step to a ResNet50 student:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_kdloss \
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --teacher-load-path ./checkpoints/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0/checkpoint.pt \
    --teacher-arch vgg11 \
    --student-arch resnet50 \
    --alpha 1.0 \
    --temperature 30.0 
```



4. **RRM (VGG11/ResNet18)**

* Step 1: Training a robust teacher (VGG11/ResNet18):

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
    --dataset cifar \
    --data /path/to/cifar \
    --arch vgg11 \			# or, resnet18
    --out-dir checkpoints \
    --exp-name cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0 \
    --adv-train 1 \
    --adv-eval 1 \
    --constraint 2 \
    --eps 1.0 \
    --attack-lr 0.2 \
    --random-start 1
```

* Step 2: Transferring robustness from the teacher trained in previous step to a ResNet50 student:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_rrm \
    --dataset cifar \
    --dataroot /path/to/cifar \
    --load-std-data \
    --teacher-load-path ./checkpoints/cifar_vgg11_l2_1_0/checkpoint.pt \
    --teacher-arch vgg11 \
    --student-arch resnet50 \
    --xent-weight 0.001 \
    --feat-loss cosine
    --feat-weight -1.0 
```


### Evaluation

We provide two evaluation scripts in this repo:

* `test.py`: uses a manual implementation of the PGD attack.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_2.test --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --temperature 1.0 --eps 1.0 --step-size 0.125 --pgd-iters 50 --random-restarts 10

```

* `ibm_test.py`: uses [IBM's ART](https://github.com/Trusted-AI/adversarial-robustness-toolbox) to execute sate-of-the-art attacks like AutoPGD.

```
# PGD Attack
python -m l_2.ibm_test --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --temperature 1.0 --attack pgd --eps 1.0 --step-size 0.125 --pgd-iters 50 --random-restarts 10

# AutoPGD Attack (reported in main paper)
python -m l_2.ibm_test --dataroot /path/to/cifar --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --temperature 1.0 --attack autopgd --eps 1.0 --pgd-iters 50 --random-restarts 10

```

Run the AutoPGD attack by appropriately setting args `arch`, `load-path`, `dataroot`, to get the numbers reported in Table 2.

Both these scripts return accuracy on the clean test set by default. Training time statistics will also be generated if the training log text file is available.


## Replicating Results from Table 3
### Data
Follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/facebookarchive/fb.resnet.torch/blob/master/INSTALL.md#download-the-imagenet-dataset) under the section 'Download the ImageNet dataset' to download and pre-process the ImageNet dataset.


### Training

The following are the commands to train the models from Table 3 in the main paper:

1. **SAT (ResNet50/VGG16)**

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
	--dataset restricted_imagenet \
	--data /path/to/orignal/imagenet/root \
	--arch resnet50 \				# or, vgg16
	--out-dir checkpoints \
	--exp-name rimagenet_resnet50_l2_3_0 \
	--adv-train 1 \
	--adv-eval 1 \
	--lr 0.01 \
	--step-lr 125 \
	--batch-size 128 \
	--constraint 2 \
	--eps 3.0 \
	--attack-lr 0.6 \
	--random-start 1
```

2. **RRM (AlexNet)**

This is a 2-step process:

* Step 1: Training a robust AlexNet teacher:

```bash
python -m robustness.main \
	--dataset restricted_imagenet \
	--data /path/to/orignal/imagenet/root \
	--arch alexnet \
	--out-dir checkpoints \
	--exp-name rimagenet_alexnet_l2_3_0 \
	--adv-train 1 \
	--adv-eval 1 \
	--lr 0.01 \
	--step-lr 125 \
	--batch-size 128 \
	--constraint 2 \
	--eps 3.0 \
	--attack-lr 0.6 \
	--random-start 1
```

* Step 2: Transferring robustness from the teacher trained in previous step to a ResNet50/VGG16 student:

```bash
python -m l_2.train_rrm \
    --dataset restricted_imagenet \
    --dataroot /path/to/imagenet/root \
    --load-std-data \
    --teacher-load-path /path/to/teacher/checkpoint.pt \
    --teacher-arch alexnet \
    --student-arch resnet50 \					#or, vgg16
    --xent-weight 0.001 \
    --feat-loss l2 \
    --feat-weight 1.0  \
    --epochs 60 \
    --lr-schedule multistep \
    --milestones 35,50
```

### Evaluation

To replicate numbers reported in Table 2, appropriately set the args `arch`, `load-path`, `dataroot` in the command below:

```
# AutoPGD Attack
python -m l_2.ibm_test --dataroot /path/to/imagenet/root --arch resnet50 --load-path /path/to/checkpoint.pt --attack autopgd --eps 3.0 --pgd-iters 20 --random-restarts 5
```

Training time statistics will also be generated if the training log text file is available.
